---
description: Additional into about the Core SDK
id: additional-info
slug: /additional-info
tags: [core-sdk-example]
---

# Additional Info

### Contract Requests

Immutable X is built as a ZK-rollup in partnership with StarkWare. We chose the ZK-rollups because it is the only solution capable of scale without compromise. This means whenever you mint or trade an NFT on Immutable X, you pay zero gas, and the validity of all transactions are directly enforced by Ethereum’s security using zero-knowledge proofs -- the first “layer 2” for NFTs on Ethereum.

The Core SDK provides interfaces for all smart contracts required to interact with the Immutable X platform.

[See all smart contract available in the Core SDK](#smart-contract-autogeneration)

```ts
import { Core__factory } from '@imtbl/core-sdk';

// Get instance of core contract
const contract = Core__factory.connect(config.starkContractAddress, signer);

// Obtain necessary parameters...

// Populate and send transaction
const populatedTransaction = await contract.populateTransaction.depositNft(
  starkPublicKey,
  assetType,
  vaultId,
  tokenId,
);

const transactionResponse = await signer.sendTransaction(populatedTransaction);
```

## Autogenerated Code

Parts of the Core SDK are automagically generated.

### API Autogenerated Code

We use OpenAPI (formally known as Swagger) to auto-generate the API clients that connect to the public APIs.
The OpenAPI spec is retrieved from https://api.x.immutable.com/openapi and also saved in the repo.

### Smart contract autogeneration

The Immutable solidity contracts can be found under `contracts` folder. Contract bindings in typescript is generated using [hardhat](https://hardhat.org/guides/compile-contracts.html).

#### Core

The Core contract is Immutable's main interface with the Ethereum blockchain, based on [StarkEx](https://docs.starkware.co/starkex-v4).

[View contract](contracts/Core.sol)

#### Registration

The Registration contract is a proxy smart contract for the Core contract that combines transactions related to onchain registration, deposits and withdrawals. When a user who is not registered onchain attempts to perform a deposit or a withdrawal, the Registration combines requests to the Core contract in order to register the user first. - users who are not registered onchain are not able to perform a deposit or withdrawal.

Fore example, instead of making subsequent transaction requests to the Core contract, i.e. `registerUser` and `depositNft`, a single transaction request can be made to the proxy Registration contract - `registerAndWithdrawNft`.

[View contract](contracts/Registration.sol)

#### IERC20

Standard interface for interacting with ERC20 contracts, taken from [OpenZeppelin](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/api/token/erc20#IERC20).

#### IERC721

Standard interface for interacting with ERC721 contracts, taken from [OpenZeppelin](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/api/token/erc721#IERC721).
